add filtering (#1148)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/treedatagrid/filtering/programmatic-filtering.md

---
title: Programmatic Filtering
page_title: .NET MAUI TreeDataGrid Documentation - Programmatic Filtering
description: Learn how to apply an external filter to the TreeDataGrid for .NET MAUI by disabling the built-in filtering UI and programmatically filter tha data in the tree grid.
position: 3
slug: treedatagrid-programmatic-filtering
---

# Programmatic Filtering

> Programmatic Filtering can be used for external filtering. For example, disable the built-in filtering UI and to filter the data in the grid programmatically. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Programmatic filtering allows you to implement external filtering—for example, by disabling the built-in filtering UI and applying filters directly in code.
```

Programmatic Filtering is achieved by adding different filter descriptors in the `FilterDescriptor` collection of the [.NET MAUI TreeDataGrid]({%slug treedatagrid-overview%}) control. 

The following descriptor types are supported:

- [.NET MAUI TreeDataGrid Filtering](#net-maui-treedatagrid-filtering)
  - [Filtering UI](#filtering-ui)
  - [FilterControl Template](#filtercontrol-template)
  - [Programmatic Filtering](#programmatic-filtering)
    - [Text Filter Descriptor](#text-filter-descriptor)
    - [Numerical Filter Descriptor](#numerical-filter-descriptor)
    - [DateTime Filter Descriptor](#datetime-filter-descriptor)
    - [TimeSpan Filter Descriptor](#timespan-filter-descriptor)
    - [Boolean Filter Descriptor](#boolean-filter-descriptor)
    - [Nested Property Text Filter Descriptor](#nested-property-text-filter-descriptor)
    - [Distinct Values Filter Descriptor](#distinct-values-filter-descriptor)
    - [Composite Filter Descriptor](#composite-filter-descriptor)
    - [Delegate Filter Descriptor](#delegate-filter-descriptor)

>   - [See Also](#see-also)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

All `FilterDescriptors` are located in the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Data` namespace.

> When using C#, you'll need to add the using statement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using C#, you need to add the using statement:
```

```C#
using Telerik.Maui.Controls.Data;
```

> Alternatively, if using XAML, they're be resolved through the same `telerik` xmlns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if using XAML, the filter descriptors are resolved through the same `telerik` xmlns:
```

                                               Operator="IsLessThan"
                                               Value="85000"/>
	</telerik:CompositeFilterDescriptor.Descriptors>
</telerik:CompositeFilterDescriptor>
```

### Delegate Filter Descriptor

The `DelegateFilterDescriptor` exposes the `Filter` property, which gets or sets the `IFilter` implementation used to check whether a data item passes the filter or not.

To use a `DelegateFilterDescriptor`, you need to create a class that implements the `IFilter` interface which will return the `Key` by which you want to filter.

Then, you need to add a `DelegateFilterDescriptor` to the `RadDataGrid.FilterDescriptors` collection and set its `Filter` property.

The following example demonstrates the `CustomFilter` implementation:

```C#
class CustomFilter : Telerik.Maui.Controls.Data.IFilter
{
    public bool PassesFilter(object item)
    {
        if(item is Club club 
           && club.StadiumCapacity > 60000 
           && club.StadiumCapacity < 85000)
        {
            return true;
        }
        else
        {
            return false;
        }
    }
}
```

> > `IFilter` is in `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Data` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `IFilter` interface is located in the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Data` namespace.
```
